communication.rst, before:

.. This file is derived from a file of the same name in the CPython devguide
   and will receive updates from the CPython guide by merging.

.. _communication:

Following Python's Development
==============================

.. warning:: At present, this is not much modified from the CPython base.

Python's development is communicated through a myriad of ways, mostly through
mailing lists, but also other forms.

.. _mailinglists:

Mailing Lists
-------------

The primary mailing list for discussion of Jython's development is jython-dev_.
The list is open to the public and all core developers subscribe,
and others interested in Jython's development.
Technical support questions should not be asked here but on jython-users_.

Jython-checkins_ sends out an email for every commit to Jython's various
repositories from http://hg.python.org. All core developers
subscribe to this list and are known to reply to these emails to make comments
about various issues they catch in the commit.
There is a mailing list related to issues on the `Jython issue tracker`_.
Subscribe to jython-bugs_ if you want  an email for all changes made to any
issue.

Developers working on Jython will be interested in the developement of Python
(the language) and its reference implementation.

python-dev_ is the primary mailing list for discussions about Python's
development. The list is open to the public and is subscribed to by all core
developers plus many people simply interested in following Python's
development. Discussion is focused on issues related to Python's development,
such as how to handle a specific issue, a PEP, etc.

- Ideas about new functionality should **not** start here and instead
  should be sent to python-ideas_.
- Technical support questions should also not be asked here and instead
  should go to python-list_ or python-help_.

Python-ideas_ is a mailing list open to the public to discuss ideas on changing
Python. If a new idea does not start here (or python-list_, discussed below),
it will get redirected here.

Sometimes people post new ideas to python-list_ to gather community opinion before
heading to python-ideas_. The list is also sometimes known as comp.lang.python,
the name of the newsgroup it mirrors (it is also known by the abbreviation
c.l.py).

The python-committers_ mailing list is a private mailing list for core
developers (the archives are publicly available).
If something only affects core developers (e.g., the
tree is frozen for commits, etc.), it is discussed here instead of python-dev
to keep traffic down on the latter.

Python-checkins_ sends out an email for every commit to Python's various
repositories from https://github.com/python/cpython. All core developers
subscribe to this list and are known to reply to these emails to make comments
about various issues they catch in the commit. Replies get redirected to
python-dev.

General Python questions should go to `python-list`_ or `tutor`_
or similar resources, such as StackOverflow_ or the ``#python`` IRC channel
on Freenode_.

`Core-Workflow <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/core-workflow>`_
mailing list is the place to discuss and work on improvements to the CPython
core development workflow.

A complete list of Python mailing lists can be found at https://mail.python.org.
Most lists are also mirrored at http://news.gmane.org/ and can be read and
posted to in various ways, including via web browsers, NNTP newsreaders, and
RSS feed readers.

.. _issue tracker: https://bugs.python.org
.. _new-bugs-announce: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/new-bugs-announce
.. _python-bugs-list: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-bugs-list
.. _python-checkins: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-checkins
.. _python-committers: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-committers
.. _python-dev: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-dev
.. _python-help: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-help
.. _python-ideas: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-ideas
.. _python-list: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-list
.. _tutor: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/tutor
.. _StackOverflow: https://stackoverflow.com/
.. _Freenode: http://freenode.net/


.. _Jython issue tracker: http://bugs.jython.org
.. _jython-bugs: https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/jython-bugs
.. _jython-checkins: https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/jython-checkins
.. _jython-dev: https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/jython-dev
.. _jython-users: https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/jython-users


IRC
---

Some core developers enjoy spending time on IRC discussing various issues
regarding Python's development in the ``#python-dev`` channel on
``irc.freenode.net``. This is not a place to ask for help with Python, but to
discuss issues related to Python's own development.  You can use Freenode's
`Web interface <http://webchat.freenode.net/>`_ if you don't have an IRC
client.


Blogs
-----

Several core developers are active bloggers and discuss Python's development
that way. You can find their blogs (and various other developers who use Python)
at http://planetpython.org/.


Standards of behaviour in these communication channels
------------------------------------------------------
We try to foster environments of mutual respect, tolerance and encouragement,
as described in the PSF's `Diversity Statement`_. Abiding by the guidelines
in this document and asking questions or posting suggestions in the
appropriate channels are an excellent way to get started on the mutual respect
part, greatly increasing the chances of receiving tolerance and encouragement
in return.

.. _Diversity Statement: https://www.python.org/psf/diversity/


Additional Repositories
-----------------------

`Python Core Workflow`_ hosts the codebase for tools such as `cherry_picker`_
and `blurb`_.

Python `Performance Benchmark`_ project is intended to be an authoritative
source of benchmarks for all Python implementations.

.. _Python Core Workflow: https://github.com/python/core-workflow
.. _cherry_picker: https://pypi.org/project/cherry_picker
.. _blurb: https://pypi.org/project/blurb
.. _Performance Benchmark: https://github.com/python/performance

Commit message:

Ensure links are appropriate to Jython (index to section 3).
Check and fix hyperlinks so the reader is not carried into material
specific to CPython while navigating. Also fix up content at the
destination sections, where reasonably easy to do.

communication.rst, after:

.. This file is derived from a file of the same name in the CPython devguide
   and will receive updates from the CPython guide by merging.

.. _communication:

Following Python's Development
==============================

Python's development is communicated through a myriad of ways, mostly through
mailing lists, but also other forms.
These are all relevant to Jython (even sometimes the content specific to C),
and Jython has some dedicated channels too.

.. _mailinglists:

Jython Mailing Lists
--------------------

The mailing list for discussion of Jython's development is jython-dev_.
The list is open to the public and the Jython core developers subscribe,
along with others interested in Jython's development.

Questions about using Jython should not be asked here but on jython-users_.

Jython-checkins_ sends out an email for every commit to Jython's various
repositories from http://hg.python.org.
All core developers subscribe to this list.
There is a mailing list related to issues on the `Jython issue tracker`_.
Subscribe to jython-bugs_ if you want  an email for all changes made to any
issue.

Python and CPython Mailing Lists
--------------------------------
Developers working on Jython will be interested in the development of Python
(the language) and its reference implementation.

python-dev_ is the primary mailing list for discussions about Python's
development. The list is open to the public and is subscribed to by all core
developers plus many people simply interested in following Python's
development. Discussion is focused on issues related to Python's development,
such as how to handle a specific issue, a PEP, etc.

- Ideas about new functionality should **not** start here and instead
  should be sent to python-ideas_.
- Technical support questions should also not be asked here and instead
  should go to python-list_ or python-help_.

Python-ideas_ is a mailing list open to the public to discuss ideas on changing
Python. If a new idea does not start here (or python-list_, discussed below),
it will get redirected here.

Sometimes people post new ideas to python-list_ to gather community opinion before
heading to python-ideas_. The list is also sometimes known as comp.lang.python,
the name of the newsgroup it mirrors (it is also known by the abbreviation
c.l.py).

The python-committers_ mailing list is a private mailing list for core
developers (the archives are publicly available).
If something only affects core developers (e.g., the
tree is frozen for commits, etc.), it is discussed here instead of python-dev
to keep traffic down on the latter.

Python-checkins_ sends out an email for every commit to Python's various
repositories from https://github.com/python/cpython. All core developers
subscribe to this list and are known to reply to these emails to make comments
about various issues they catch in the commit. Replies get redirected to
python-dev.

General Python questions should go to `python-list`_ or `tutor`_
or similar resources, such as StackOverflow_ or the ``#python`` IRC channel
on Freenode_.

`Core-Workflow <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/core-workflow>`_
mailing list is the place to discuss and work on improvements to the CPython
core development workflow.

A complete list of Python mailing lists can be found at https://mail.python.org.
Most lists are also mirrored at http://news.gmane.org/ and can be read and
posted to in various ways, including via web browsers, NNTP newsreaders, and
RSS feed readers.

.. _issue tracker: https://bugs.python.org
.. _new-bugs-announce: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/new-bugs-announce
.. _python-bugs-list: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-bugs-list
.. _python-checkins: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-checkins
.. _python-committers: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-committers
.. _python-dev: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-dev
.. _python-help: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-help
.. _python-ideas: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-ideas
.. _python-list: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-list
.. _tutor: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/tutor
.. _StackOverflow: https://stackoverflow.com/
.. _Freenode: http://freenode.net/


.. _Jython issue tracker: http://bugs.jython.org
.. _jython-bugs: https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/jython-bugs
.. _jython-checkins: https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/jython-checkins
.. _jython-dev: https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/jython-dev
.. _jython-users: https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/jython-users


IRC
---

Some core developers enjoy spending time on IRC discussing various issues
regarding Python's development in the ``#python-dev`` channel on
``irc.freenode.net``. This is not a place to ask for help with Python, but to
discuss issues related to Python's own development.  You can use Freenode's
`Web interface <http://webchat.freenode.net/>`_ if you don't have an IRC
client.


Blogs
-----

Several core developers are active bloggers and discuss Python's development
that way. You can find their blogs (and various other developers who use Python)
at http://planetpython.org/.


Standards of behaviour in these communication channels
------------------------------------------------------
We try to foster environments of mutual respect, tolerance and encouragement,
as described in the PSF's `Diversity Statement`_. Abiding by the guidelines
in this document and asking questions or posting suggestions in the
appropriate channels are an excellent way to get started on the mutual respect
part, greatly increasing the chances of receiving tolerance and encouragement
in return.

.. _Diversity Statement: https://www.python.org/psf/diversity/


Additional Repositories
-----------------------

`Python Core Workflow`_ hosts the codebase for tools such as `cherry_picker`_
and `blurb`_.

Python `Performance Benchmark`_ project is intended to be an authoritative
source of benchmarks for all Python implementations.

.. _Python Core Workflow: https://github.com/python/core-workflow
.. _cherry_picker: https://pypi.org/project/cherry_picker
.. _blurb: https://pypi.org/project/blurb
.. _Performance Benchmark: https://github.com/python/performance
