docquality.rst, before:

.. This file is derived from a file of the same name in the CPython devguide
   and will receive updates from the CPython guide by merging.

.. _docquality:

Helping with Documentation
==========================

.. warning:: At present, this is not much modified from the CPython base.

Python is known for having good documentation. But maintaining all of it and
keeping a high level of quality takes a lot of effort. Help is always
appreciated with the documentation, and it requires little programming
experience (with or without Python).

:ref:`Documenting Python <documenting>` covers the details of how Python's documentation works.
It includes an explanation of the markup used (although you can figure a lot
out simply by looking at pre-existing documentation) and :ref:`how to build
<building-doc>` the documentation (which allows you to see how your changes
will look along with validating that your new markup is correct).

The documentation built from the :ref:`in-development <indevbranch>` and
:ref:`maintenance <maintbranch>` branches can be viewed from
https://docs.python.org/dev/.  The in-development and most recent 2.x and 3.x
maintenance :ref:`branches <listbranch>` are rebuilt once per day.

If you care to get more involved with documentation, you may also consider
subscribing to the
`docs@python.org mailing list <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/docs>`_.
Documentation issues reported on the `issue tracker`_ are sent here as well as
some bug reports being directly emailed to the mailing list. There is also the
`docs-sig@python.org mailing list
<https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/doc-sig>`_ which discusses the
documentation toolchain, projects, standards, etc.


Helping with issues filed on the issue tracker
----------------------------------------------

If you look at `documentation issues`_ on the `issue tracker`_, you
will find various documentation problems that need work. Issues vary from
typos, to unclear documentation, to something completely lacking documentation.

If you decide to tackle a documentation issue, you can simply submit a
:doc:`pull request <pullrequest>` for the issue. If you are worried that someone
else might be working simultaneously on the issue, simply leave a comment on the issue
saying you are going to try and create a pull request and roughly how long you think
you will take to do it (this allows others to take on the issue if you happen
to forget or lose interest).

.. _issue tracker: https://bugs.python.org
.. _documentation issues: https://bugs.python.org/issue?%40search_text=&ignore=file%3Acontent&title=&%40columns=title&id=&%40columns=id&stage=&creation=&creator=&activity=&%40columns=activity&%40sort=activity&actor=&nosy=&type=&components=4&versions=&dependencies=&assignee=&keywords=&priority=&%40group=priority&status=1&%40columns=status&resolution=&nosy_count=&message_count=&%40pagesize=50&%40startwith=0&%40queryname=&%40old-queryname=&%40action=search


Proofreading
------------

While an issue filed on the `issue tracker`_ means there is a known issue
somewhere, that does not mean there are not other issues lurking about in the
documentation. Simply proofreading parts of the documentation is enough to
uncover problems (e.g., documentation that needs to be updated for Python 3
from Python 2).

If you decide to proofread, then read a section of the documentation from start
to finish, filing issues in the issue tracker for each problem you find. Simple
typos don't require an issue of their own, instead submit a pull request directly.
Don't file a single issue for an entire section containing multiple problems as that
makes it harder to break the work up for multiple people to help with.


.. _helping-with-the-developers-guide:

Helping with the Developer's Guide
----------------------------------

.. highlight:: bash

The Developer's Guide uses the same process as the main Python documentation,
except for some small differences.  The source lives in a `separate
repository`_ and bug reports should be submitted to the `the GitHub tracker`_.

To submit a :doc:`pull request <pullrequest>` you can fork the
`devguide repo`_ to your GitHub account and clone it using::

    $ git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/devguide

In order for your PR to be accepted, you will also need to sign the
:ref:`contributor agreement <cla>`.

To build the devguide, some additional dependencies are required (most
importantly, `Sphinx`_), and the standard way to install dependencies in
Python projects is to create a virtualenv, and then install dependencies from
a ``requirements.txt`` file. For your convenience, this is all *automated for
you* and all you have to do to build the devguide is run::

    $ make html

in the checkout directory, which will write the files to the ``_build/html``
directory.  Note that ``make check`` is automatically run when
you submit a :doc:`pull request <pullrequest>`, so you should make
sure that it runs without errors.

Changes to the devguide are normally published within a day, on a schedule
that may be different from the main documentation.

.. _separate repository:
.. _devguide repo: https://github.com/python/devguide
.. _the GitHub tracker: https://github.com/python/devguide/issues
.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/

Commit message:

Rescue Frank Wierzbicki's text from the 2014 version
These are words specific to Jython and Mercurial, merged by hand. We
restore some sections the CPython version has lost or never had. Much is
still in place that is CPython-specific.

docquality.rst, after:

.. This file is derived from a file of the same name in the CPython devguide
   and will receive updates from the CPython guide by merging.

.. _docquality:

Helping with Documentation
==========================

.. warning:: At present, this is not much modified from the CPython base.

.. I've not pulled in the old devguide Python to Jython changes as the section
   is about Python, not CPython. The original (as improved upstream) is valid.
   And we don't really produce much documentation. (Javadoc is a different
   kettle of fish.)

Python is known for having good documentation. But maintaining all of it and
keeping a high level of quality takes a lot of effort. Help is always
appreciated with the documentation, and it requires little programming
experience (with or without Python).

:ref:`Documenting Python <documenting>` covers the details of how Python's documentation works.
It includes an explanation of the markup used (although you can figure a lot
out simply by looking at pre-existing documentation) and :ref:`how to build
<building-doc>` the documentation (which allows you to see how your changes
will look along with validating that your new markup is correct).

The documentation built from the :ref:`in-development <indevbranch>` and
:ref:`maintenance <maintbranch>` branches can be viewed from
https://docs.python.org/dev/.  The in-development and most recent 2.x and 3.x
maintenance :ref:`branches <listbranch>` are rebuilt once per day.

If you care to get more involved with documentation, you may also consider
subscribing to the
`docs@python.org mailing list <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/docs>`_.
Documentation issues reported on the `issue tracker`_ are sent here as well as
some bug reports being directly emailed to the mailing list. There is also the
`docs-sig@python.org mailing list
<https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/doc-sig>`_ which discusses the
documentation toolchain, projects, standards, etc.


Helping with issues filed on the issue tracker
----------------------------------------------

If you look at `documentation issues`_ on the `issue tracker`_, you
will find various documentation problems that need work. Issues vary from
typos, to unclear documentation, to something completely lacking documentation.

If you decide to tackle a documentation issue, you can simply submit a
:doc:`pull request <pullrequest>` for the issue. If you are worried that someone
else might be working simultaneously on the issue, simply leave a comment on the issue
saying you are going to try and create a pull request and roughly how long you think
you will take to do it (this allows others to take on the issue if you happen
to forget or lose interest).

.. _issue tracker: https://bugs.python.org
.. _documentation issues: https://bugs.python.org/issue?%40search_text=&ignore=file%3Acontent&title=&%40columns=title&id=&%40columns=id&stage=&creation=&creator=&activity=&%40columns=activity&%40sort=activity&actor=&nosy=&type=&components=4&versions=&dependencies=&assignee=&keywords=&priority=&%40group=priority&status=1&%40columns=status&resolution=&nosy_count=&message_count=&%40pagesize=50&%40startwith=0&%40queryname=&%40old-queryname=&%40action=search


Proofreading
------------

While an issue filed on the `issue tracker`_ means there is a known issue
somewhere, that does not mean there are not other issues lurking about in the
documentation. Simply proofreading parts of the documentation is enough to
uncover problems (e.g., documentation that needs to be updated for Python 3
from Python 2).

If you decide to proofread, then read a section of the documentation from start
to finish, filing issues in the issue tracker for each problem you find. Simple
typos don't require an issue of their own, instead submit a pull request directly.
Don't file a single issue for an entire section containing multiple problems as that
makes it harder to break the work up for multiple people to help with.


.. _helping-with-the-developers-guide:

Helping with the Developer's Guide
----------------------------------

.. highlight:: bash

The Developer's Guide uses the same process as the main Python documentation,
except for some small differences.  The source lives in a `separate
repository`_ and bug reports should be submitted to the `the GitHub tracker`_.

To submit a :doc:`pull request <pullrequest>` you can fork the
`devguide repo`_ to your GitHub account and clone it using::

    $ git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/devguide

In order for your PR to be accepted, you will also need to sign the
:ref:`contributor agreement <cla>`.

To build the devguide, some additional dependencies are required (most
importantly, `Sphinx`_), and the standard way to install dependencies in
Python projects is to create a virtualenv, and then install dependencies from
a ``requirements.txt`` file. For your convenience, this is all *automated for
you* and all you have to do to build the devguide is run::

    $ make html

in the checkout directory, which will write the files to the ``_build/html``
directory.  Note that ``make check`` is automatically run when
you submit a :doc:`pull request <pullrequest>`, so you should make
sure that it runs without errors.

Changes to the devguide are normally published within a day, on a schedule
that may be different from the main documentation.

.. _separate repository:
.. _devguide repo: https://github.com/python/devguide
.. _the GitHub tracker: https://github.com/python/devguide/issues
.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/
