experts.rst, before:

.. _experts:

Experts Index
=============

This document has tables that list Python Modules, Tools, Platforms and
Interest Areas and names for each item that indicate a maintainer or an
expert in the field.  This list is intended to be used by issue submitters,
issue triage people, and other issue participants to find people to add to
the nosy list or to contact directly by email for help and decisions on
feature requests and bug fixes.  People on this list may be asked to render
final judgement on a feature or bug.  If no active maintainer is listed for
a given module, then questionable changes should go to python-dev, while
any other issues can and should be decided by any committer.

Unless a name is followed by a '*', you should never assign an issue to
that person, only make them nosy.  Names followed by a '*' may be assigned
issues involving the module or topic.

.. TODO document automatic assignment/nosy: people need not add them manually

The Platform and Interest Area tables list broader fields in which various
people have expertise.  These people can also be contacted for help,
opinions, and decisions when issues involve their areas.

If a listed maintainer does not respond to requests for comment for an
extended period (three weeks or more), they should be marked as inactive
in this list by placing the word 'inactive' in parenthesis behind their
tracker id.  They are of course free to remove that inactive mark at
any time.

Committers should update these tables as their areas of expertise widen.
New topics may be added to the Interest Area table at will.

The existence of this list is not meant to indicate that these people
*must* be contacted for decisions; it is, rather, a resource to be used
by non-committers to find responsible parties, and by committers who do
not feel qualified to make a decision in a particular context.

See also :PEP:`291` and :PEP:`360` for information about certain modules
with special rules.


Stdlib
------
====================  =============================================
Module                Maintainers
====================  =============================================
__future__
__main__              gvanrossum, ncoghlan
_dummy_thread         brett.cannon
_thread
_testbuffer           skrah
abc
aifc                  r.david.murray
argparse              bethard
array
ast                   benjamin.peterson
asynchat              josiahcarlson, giampaolo.rodola*, stutzbach
asyncio               haypo, yselivanov, giampaolo.rodola
asyncore              josiahcarlson, giampaolo.rodola*, stutzbach
atexit
audioop               serhiy.storchaka
base64
bdb
binascii
binhex
bisect                rhettinger
builtins
bz2
calendar              rhettinger
cgi
cgitb
chunk
cmath                 mark.dickinson
cmd
code
codecs                lemburg, doerwalter
codeop
collections           rhettinger
collections.abc       rhettinger, stutzbach
colorsys
compileall
concurrent.futures    bquinlan
configparser          lukasz.langa*
contextlib            ncoghlan, yselivanov
copy                  alexandre.vassalotti
copyreg               alexandre.vassalotti
cProfile
crypt                 jafo*
csv                   skip.montanaro (inactive)
ctypes                theller (inactive), belopolsky, amaury.forgeotdarc,
                      meador.inge
curses                twouters
datetime              belopolsky
dbm
decimal               facundobatista, rhettinger, mark.dickinson, skrah
difflib               tim.peters (inactive)
dis                   ncoghlan, yselivanov
distutils             eric.araujo, dstufft
doctest               tim.peters (inactive)
dummy_threading       brett.cannon
email                 barry, r.david.murray*
encodings             lemburg, loewis
ensurepip             ncoghlan, dstufft
enum                  eli.bendersky*, barry, ethan.furman*
errno                 twouters
exceptions
faulthandler          haypo
fcntl                 twouters
filecmp
fileinput
fnmatch
formatter
fpectl                twouters
fractions             mark.dickinson, rhettinger
ftplib                giampaolo.rodola*
functools             ncoghlan, rhettinger
gc
getopt
getpass
gettext               loewis
glob
grp
gzip
hashlib               christian.heimes, gregory.p.smith
heapq                 rhettinger, stutzbach
hmac                  christian.heimes, gregory.p.smith
html                  ezio.melotti
http
idlelib               kbk (inactive), terry.reedy*, roger.serwy (inactive)
imaplib
imghdr
imp
importlib             brett.cannon
inspect               yselivanov
io                    benjamin.peterson, stutzbach
ipaddress             pmoody
itertools             rhettinger
json                  bob.ippolito (inactive), ezio.melotti, rhettinger
keyword
lib2to3               benjamin.peterson
libmpdec              skrah
linecache
locale                loewis, lemburg
logging               vinay.sajip
lzma
macpath
mailbox
mailcap
marshal
math                  mark.dickinson, rhettinger, stutzbach
memoryview            skrah
mimetypes
mmap                  twouters
modulefinder          theller (inactive), jvr
msilib                loewis
msvcrt
multiprocessing       davin*, pitrou, jnoller (inactive), sbt (inactive)
netrc
nis
nntplib
numbers
operator
optparse              aronacher
os                    loewis
os.path               serhiy.storchaka
ossaudiodev
parser                benjamin.peterson
pathlib
pdb
pickle                alexandre.vassalotti
pickletools           alexandre.vassalotti
pipes
pkgutil
platform              lemburg
plistlib
poplib                giampaolo.rodola
posix                 larry
pprint                fdrake
profile
pstats
pty                   twouters*
pwd
py_compile
pybench               lemburg
pyclbr
pydoc
queue                 rhettinger
quopri
random                rhettinger, mark.dickinson
re                    effbot (inactive), ezio.melotti, serhiy.storchaka
readline              twouters
reprlib
resource              twouters
rlcompleter
runpy                 ncoghlan
sched                 giampaolo.rodola
select
selectors             neologix, giampaolo.rodola
shelve
shlex
shutil                tarek
signal
site
smtpd                 giampaolo.rodola
smtplib
sndhdr
socket
socketserver
spwd
sqlite3               ghaering
ssl                   janssen, christian.heimes, dstufft, alex
stat                  christian.heimes
statistics            steven.daprano
string
stringprep
struct                mark.dickinson, meador.inge
subprocess            astrand (inactive)
sunau
symbol
symtable              benjamin.peterson
sys
sysconfig             tarek
syslog                jafo*
tabnanny              tim.peters (inactive)
tarfile               lars.gustaebel
telnetlib
tempfile
termios               twouters
test                  ezio.melotti
textwrap
threading
time                  belopolsky
timeit
tkinter               gpolo, serhiy.storchaka
token
tokenize              meador.inge
trace                 belopolsky
traceback
tracemalloc           haypo
tty                   twouters*
turtle                gregorlingl, willingc
types                 yselivanov
typing
unicodedata           loewis, lemburg, ezio.melotti
unittest              michael.foord*, ezio.melotti, rbcollins
unittest.mock         michael.foord*
urllib                orsenthil
uu
uuid
venv                  vinay.sajip
warnings
wave
weakref               fdrake
webbrowser
winreg                stutzbach
winsound              effbot (inactive)
wsgiref               pje
xdrlib
xml.dom
xml.dom.minidom
xml.dom.pulldom
xml.etree             effbot (inactive), eli.bendersky*, scoder
xml.parsers.expat
xml.sax
xml.sax.handler
xml.sax.saxutils
xml.sax.xmlreader
xmlrpc                loewis
zipfile               alanmcintyre, serhiy.storchaka, twouters
zipimport             twouters*
zlib                  twouters
====================  =============================================


Tools
-----
==================  ===========
Tool                Maintainers
==================  ===========
Argument Clinic     larry
pybench             lemburg
==================  ===========


Platforms
---------
===================   ===========
Platform              Maintainers
===================   ===========
AIX                   David.Edelsohn
Cygwin                jlt63, stutzbach
FreeBSD
HP-UX
Linux
Mac OS X              ronaldoussoren, ned.deily
NetBSD1
OS2/EMX               aimacintyre
Solaris/OpenIndiana   jcea
Windows               tim.golden, zach.ware, steve.dower, paul.moore
JVM/Java              frank.wierzbicki
===================   ===========


Miscellaneous
-------------
==================  ==========================================================
Interest Area       Maintainers
==================  ==========================================================
algorithms
argument clinic     larry
ast/compiler        ncoghlan, benjamin.peterson, brett.cannon, yselivanov
autoconf/makefiles  twouters*
bsd
bug tracker         ezio.melotti
buildbots           zach.ware
bytecode            benjamin.peterson, yselivanov
context managers    ncoghlan
coverity scan       christian.heimes, brett.cannon, twouters
cryptography        gregory.p.smith, dstufft
data formats        mark.dickinson
database            lemburg
devguide            ncoghlan, eric.araujo, ezio.melotti, willingc
documentation       ezio.melotti, eric.araujo, willingc
GUI
i18n                lemburg, eric.araujo
import machinery    brett.cannon, ncoghlan, eric.snow
io                  benjamin.peterson, stutzbach
locale              lemburg, loewis
mathematics         mark.dickinson, eric.smith, lemburg, stutzbach
memory management   tim.peters, lemburg, twouters
networking          giampaolo.rodola,
object model        benjamin.peterson, twouters
packaging           tarek, lemburg, alexis, eric.araujo, dstufft, paul.moore
performance         brett.cannon, haypo, serhiy.storchaka, yselivanov
pip                 ncoghlan, dstufft, paul.moore, Marcus.Smith
py3 transition      benjamin.peterson
release management  tarek, lemburg, benjamin.peterson, barry, loewis,
                    gvanrossum, anthonybaxter, eric.araujo, ned.deily,
                    georg.brandl
str.format          eric.smith
testing             michael.foord, ezio.melotti
test coverage       giampaolo.rodola
threads
time and dates      lemburg, belopolsky
unicode             lemburg, ezio.melotti, haypo, benjamin.peterson,
version control     eric.araujo, ezio.melotti
==================  ==========================================================


Documentation Translations
--------------------------
=============  ============
Translation    Coordinator
=============  ============
French         mdk
Japanese       inada.naoki
Bengali India  kushal.das
Hungarian      gbtami
Portuguese     rougeth
=============  ============

Commit message:

Restructure the devguide for Jython
Two strategies have been applied, depending on how CPython specific was
the original file. Where content applies to Jython, with simple edits,
we keep the original file. Where extensive re-writing is needed we start
a new "companion" file (e.g. grammar_jy.rst) and keep the original for
reference.

The aim is to allow changes to be merged as the CPython devguide
develops.

index.rst is an exception as it is the conventional start page and
cannot be renamed even though change is extensive.

experts.rst, after:

.. This file is derived from a file of the same name in the CPython devguide
   and will receive updates from the CPython guide by merging.

.. _experts:

Experts Index
=============

.. warning:: At present, this is not much modified from the CPython base.

This document has tables that list Python Modules, Tools, Platforms and
Interest Areas and names for each item that indicate a maintainer or an
expert in the field.  This list is intended to be used by issue submitters,
issue triage people, and other issue participants to find people to add to
the nosy list or to contact directly by email for help and decisions on
feature requests and bug fixes.  People on this list may be asked to render
final judgement on a feature or bug.  If no active maintainer is listed for
a given module, then questionable changes should go to python-dev, while
any other issues can and should be decided by any committer.

Unless a name is followed by a '*', you should never assign an issue to
that person, only make them nosy.  Names followed by a '*' may be assigned
issues involving the module or topic.

.. TODO document automatic assignment/nosy: people need not add them manually

The Platform and Interest Area tables list broader fields in which various
people have expertise.  These people can also be contacted for help,
opinions, and decisions when issues involve their areas.

If a listed maintainer does not respond to requests for comment for an
extended period (three weeks or more), they should be marked as inactive
in this list by placing the word 'inactive' in parenthesis behind their
tracker id.  They are of course free to remove that inactive mark at
any time.

Committers should update these tables as their areas of expertise widen.
New topics may be added to the Interest Area table at will.

The existence of this list is not meant to indicate that these people
*must* be contacted for decisions; it is, rather, a resource to be used
by non-committers to find responsible parties, and by committers who do
not feel qualified to make a decision in a particular context.

See also :PEP:`291` and :PEP:`360` for information about certain modules
with special rules.


Stdlib
------
====================  =============================================
Module                Maintainers
====================  =============================================
__future__
__main__              gvanrossum, ncoghlan
_dummy_thread         brett.cannon
_thread
_testbuffer           skrah
abc
aifc                  r.david.murray
argparse              bethard
array
ast                   benjamin.peterson
asynchat              josiahcarlson, giampaolo.rodola*, stutzbach
asyncio               haypo, yselivanov, giampaolo.rodola
asyncore              josiahcarlson, giampaolo.rodola*, stutzbach
atexit
audioop               serhiy.storchaka
base64
bdb
binascii
binhex
bisect                rhettinger
builtins
bz2
calendar              rhettinger
cgi
cgitb
chunk
cmath                 mark.dickinson
cmd
code
codecs                lemburg, doerwalter
codeop
collections           rhettinger
collections.abc       rhettinger, stutzbach
colorsys
compileall
concurrent.futures    bquinlan
configparser          lukasz.langa*
contextlib            ncoghlan, yselivanov
copy                  alexandre.vassalotti
copyreg               alexandre.vassalotti
cProfile
crypt                 jafo*
csv                   skip.montanaro (inactive)
ctypes                theller (inactive), belopolsky, amaury.forgeotdarc,
                      meador.inge
curses                twouters
datetime              belopolsky
dbm
decimal               facundobatista, rhettinger, mark.dickinson, skrah
difflib               tim.peters (inactive)
dis                   ncoghlan, yselivanov
distutils             eric.araujo, dstufft
doctest               tim.peters (inactive)
dummy_threading       brett.cannon
email                 barry, r.david.murray*
encodings             lemburg, loewis
ensurepip             ncoghlan, dstufft
enum                  eli.bendersky*, barry, ethan.furman*
errno                 twouters
exceptions
faulthandler          haypo
fcntl                 twouters
filecmp
fileinput
fnmatch
formatter
fpectl                twouters
fractions             mark.dickinson, rhettinger
ftplib                giampaolo.rodola*
functools             ncoghlan, rhettinger
gc
getopt
getpass
gettext               loewis
glob
grp
gzip
hashlib               christian.heimes, gregory.p.smith
heapq                 rhettinger, stutzbach
hmac                  christian.heimes, gregory.p.smith
html                  ezio.melotti
http
idlelib               kbk (inactive), terry.reedy*, roger.serwy (inactive)
imaplib
imghdr
imp
importlib             brett.cannon
inspect               yselivanov
io                    benjamin.peterson, stutzbach
ipaddress             pmoody
itertools             rhettinger
json                  bob.ippolito (inactive), ezio.melotti, rhettinger
keyword
lib2to3               benjamin.peterson
libmpdec              skrah
linecache
locale                loewis, lemburg
logging               vinay.sajip
lzma
macpath
mailbox
mailcap
marshal
math                  mark.dickinson, rhettinger, stutzbach
memoryview            skrah
mimetypes
mmap                  twouters
modulefinder          theller (inactive), jvr
msilib                loewis
msvcrt
multiprocessing       davin*, pitrou, jnoller (inactive), sbt (inactive)
netrc
nis
nntplib
numbers
operator
optparse              aronacher
os                    loewis
os.path               serhiy.storchaka
ossaudiodev
parser                benjamin.peterson
pathlib
pdb
pickle                alexandre.vassalotti
pickletools           alexandre.vassalotti
pipes
pkgutil
platform              lemburg
plistlib
poplib                giampaolo.rodola
posix                 larry
pprint                fdrake
profile
pstats
pty                   twouters*
pwd
py_compile
pybench               lemburg
pyclbr
pydoc
queue                 rhettinger
quopri
random                rhettinger, mark.dickinson
re                    effbot (inactive), ezio.melotti, serhiy.storchaka
readline              twouters
reprlib
resource              twouters
rlcompleter
runpy                 ncoghlan
sched                 giampaolo.rodola
select
selectors             neologix, giampaolo.rodola
shelve
shlex
shutil                tarek
signal
site
smtpd                 giampaolo.rodola
smtplib
sndhdr
socket
socketserver
spwd
sqlite3               ghaering
ssl                   janssen, christian.heimes, dstufft, alex
stat                  christian.heimes
statistics            steven.daprano
string
stringprep
struct                mark.dickinson, meador.inge
subprocess            astrand (inactive)
sunau
symbol
symtable              benjamin.peterson
sys
sysconfig             tarek
syslog                jafo*
tabnanny              tim.peters (inactive)
tarfile               lars.gustaebel
telnetlib
tempfile
termios               twouters
test                  ezio.melotti
textwrap
threading
time                  belopolsky
timeit
tkinter               gpolo, serhiy.storchaka
token
tokenize              meador.inge
trace                 belopolsky
traceback
tracemalloc           haypo
tty                   twouters*
turtle                gregorlingl, willingc
types                 yselivanov
typing
unicodedata           loewis, lemburg, ezio.melotti
unittest              michael.foord*, ezio.melotti, rbcollins
unittest.mock         michael.foord*
urllib                orsenthil
uu
uuid
venv                  vinay.sajip
warnings
wave
weakref               fdrake
webbrowser
winreg                stutzbach
winsound              effbot (inactive)
wsgiref               pje
xdrlib
xml.dom
xml.dom.minidom
xml.dom.pulldom
xml.etree             effbot (inactive), eli.bendersky*, scoder
xml.parsers.expat
xml.sax
xml.sax.handler
xml.sax.saxutils
xml.sax.xmlreader
xmlrpc                loewis
zipfile               alanmcintyre, serhiy.storchaka, twouters
zipimport             twouters*
zlib                  twouters
====================  =============================================


Tools
-----
==================  ===========
Tool                Maintainers
==================  ===========
Argument Clinic     larry
pybench             lemburg
==================  ===========


Platforms
---------
===================   ===========
Platform              Maintainers
===================   ===========
AIX                   David.Edelsohn
Cygwin                jlt63, stutzbach
FreeBSD
HP-UX
Linux
Mac OS X              ronaldoussoren, ned.deily
NetBSD1
OS2/EMX               aimacintyre
Solaris/OpenIndiana   jcea
Windows               tim.golden, zach.ware, steve.dower, paul.moore
JVM/Java              frank.wierzbicki
===================   ===========


Miscellaneous
-------------
==================  ==========================================================
Interest Area       Maintainers
==================  ==========================================================
algorithms
argument clinic     larry
ast/compiler        ncoghlan, benjamin.peterson, brett.cannon, yselivanov
autoconf/makefiles  twouters*
bsd
bug tracker         ezio.melotti
buildbots           zach.ware
bytecode            benjamin.peterson, yselivanov
context managers    ncoghlan
coverity scan       christian.heimes, brett.cannon, twouters
cryptography        gregory.p.smith, dstufft
data formats        mark.dickinson
database            lemburg
devguide            ncoghlan, eric.araujo, ezio.melotti, willingc
documentation       ezio.melotti, eric.araujo, willingc
GUI
i18n                lemburg, eric.araujo
import machinery    brett.cannon, ncoghlan, eric.snow
io                  benjamin.peterson, stutzbach
locale              lemburg, loewis
mathematics         mark.dickinson, eric.smith, lemburg, stutzbach
memory management   tim.peters, lemburg, twouters
networking          giampaolo.rodola,
object model        benjamin.peterson, twouters
packaging           tarek, lemburg, alexis, eric.araujo, dstufft, paul.moore
performance         brett.cannon, haypo, serhiy.storchaka, yselivanov
pip                 ncoghlan, dstufft, paul.moore, Marcus.Smith
py3 transition      benjamin.peterson
release management  tarek, lemburg, benjamin.peterson, barry, loewis,
                    gvanrossum, anthonybaxter, eric.araujo, ned.deily,
                    georg.brandl
str.format          eric.smith
testing             michael.foord, ezio.melotti
test coverage       giampaolo.rodola
threads
time and dates      lemburg, belopolsky
unicode             lemburg, ezio.melotti, haypo, benjamin.peterson,
version control     eric.araujo, ezio.melotti
==================  ==========================================================


Documentation Translations
--------------------------
=============  ============
Translation    Coordinator
=============  ============
French         mdk
Japanese       inada.naoki
Bengali India  kushal.das
Hungarian      gbtami
Portuguese     rougeth
=============  ============
