fixingissues.rst, before:

.. This file is derived from a file of the same name in the CPython devguide
   and will receive updates from the CPython guide by merging.

.. _fixingissues:

Fixing "easy" Issues (and Beyond)
=================================

.. warning:: At present, this is not much modified from the CPython base.

When you feel comfortable enough to want to help tackle issues by trying to
create a patch to fix an issue, you can start by looking at the `"easy"
issues`_. These issues *should* be ones where it should take no longer than a day
or weekend to fix. But because the "easy" classification is typically done at
triage time it can turn out to be inaccurate, so do feel free to leave a
comment if you think the classification no longer applies.

For the truly adventurous looking for a challenge, you can look for issues that
are not considered easy and try to fix those. It must be warned, though, that
it is quite possible that a bug that has been left open has been left into that
state because of the difficulty compared to the benefit of the fix. It could
also still be open because no consensus has been reached on how to fix the
issue (although having a patch that proposes a fix can turn the tides of the
discussion to help bring it to a close). Regardless of why the issue is open,
you can also always provide useful comments if you do attempt a fix, successful
or not.

.. _"easy" issues: https://bugs.python.org/issue?status=1&@sort=-activity&@dispname=Easy%20issues&@startwith=0&@filter=&@group=priority&@columns=id,activity,title,creator,status&keywords=6&@action=search&@pagesize=50

.. TODO: add something about no active core developer for the area?

Commit message:

Rescue Frank Wierzbicki's text from the 2014 version
These are words specific to Jython and Mercurial, merged by hand. We
restore some sections the CPython version has lost or never had. Much is
still in place that is CPython-specific.

fixingissues.rst, after:

.. This file is derived from a file of the same name in the CPython devguide
   and will receive updates from the CPython guide by merging.

.. _fixingissues:

Fixing "easy" Issues (and Beyond)
=================================

.. warning:: At present, this is not much modified from the CPython base.
   We have intended for a long time to update our tracker so that CPython
   instructions would in fact apply, but they don't yet.

When you feel comfortable enough to want to help tackle issues by trying to
create a patch to fix an issue, you can start by looking at the `"easy"
issues`_. These issues *should* be ones where it should take no longer than a day
or weekend to fix. But because the "easy" classification is typically done at
triage time it can turn out to be inaccurate, so do feel free to leave a
comment if you think the classification no longer applies.

For the truly adventurous looking for a challenge, you can look for issues that
are not considered easy and try to fix those. It must be warned, though, that
it is quite possible that a bug that has been left open has been left into that
state because of the difficulty compared to the benefit of the fix. It could
also still be open because no consensus has been reached on how to fix the
issue (although having a patch that proposes a fix can turn the tides of the
discussion to help bring it to a close). Regardless of why the issue is open,
you can also always provide useful comments if you do attempt a fix, successful
or not.

.. _"easy" issues: https://bugs.python.org/issue?status=1&@sort=-activity&@dispname=Easy%20issues&@startwith=0&@filter=&@group=priority&@columns=id,activity,title,creator,status&keywords=6&@action=search&@pagesize=50

.. TODO: add something about no active core developer for the area?
