help.rst, before:

.. _help:

Where to Get Help
=================

If you are working on Python it is very possible you will come across an issue
where you need some assistance to solve it (this happens to core developers
all the time).

Should you require help, there are a :ref:`variety of options available
<communication>` to seek assistance. If the question involves process or tool
usage then please check the rest of this guide first as it should answer your
question.


Ask #python-dev
---------------

If you are comfortable with IRC you can try asking on ``#python-dev`` (on
the `freenode`_ network). Typically there are a number of experienced
developers, ranging from triagers to core developers, who can answer
questions about developing for Python.  Just remember that ``#python-dev``
is for questions involving the development *of* Python whereas ``#python``
is for questions concerning development *with* Python.

.. _freenode: http://freenode.net/


Core Mentorship
---------------

If you are interested in improving Python and contributing to its development,
but don’t yet feel entirely comfortable with the public channels mentioned
above, `Python Mentors`_ are here to help you.  Python is fortunate to have a
community of volunteer core developers willing to mentor anyone wishing to
contribute code, work on bug fixes or improve documentation.  Everyone is
welcomed and encouraged to contribute.

.. _Python Mentors: https://www.python.org/dev/core-mentorship/


Mailing Lists
-------------

Further options for seeking assistance include the `python-ideas`_ and
`python-dev`_ mailing lists. Python-ideas contains discussion of speculative
Python language ideas for possible inclusion into the language. If an idea
gains traction it can then be discussed and honed to the point of becoming a
solid proposal and presented on python-dev.  Python-dev contains discussion
of current Python design issues, release mechanics, and maintenance of
existing releases.  As with ``#python-dev``, these mailing lists are for
questions involving the development *of* Python, **not** for development
*with* Python.

.. _python-ideas: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-ideas
.. _python-dev: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-dev


File a Bug
----------

If you strongly suspect you have stumbled on a bug (be it in the build
process, in the test suite, or in other areas), then open an issue on the
`issue tracker`_.  As with every bug report it is strongly advised that
you detail which conditions triggered it (including the OS name and version,
and what you were trying to do), as well as the exact error message you
encountered.

.. _issue tracker: https://bugs.python.org

Commit message:

Restructure the devguide for Jython
Two strategies have been applied, depending on how CPython specific was
the original file. Where content applies to Jython, with simple edits,
we keep the original file. Where extensive re-writing is needed we start
a new "companion" file (e.g. grammar_jy.rst) and keep the original for
reference.

The aim is to allow changes to be merged as the CPython devguide
develops.

index.rst is an exception as it is the conventional start page and
cannot be renamed even though change is extensive.

help.rst, after:

.. This file is derived from a file of the same name in the CPython devguide
   and will receive updates from the CPython guide by merging.

.. _help:

Where to Get Help
=================

.. warning:: At present, this is not much modified from the CPython base.

If you are working on Python it is very possible you will come across an issue
where you need some assistance to solve it (this happens to core developers
all the time).

Should you require help, there are a :ref:`variety of options available
<communication>` to seek assistance. If the question involves process or tool
usage then please check the rest of this guide first as it should answer your
question.


Ask #python-dev
---------------

If you are comfortable with IRC you can try asking on ``#python-dev`` (on
the `freenode`_ network). Typically there are a number of experienced
developers, ranging from triagers to core developers, who can answer
questions about developing for Python.  Just remember that ``#python-dev``
is for questions involving the development *of* Python whereas ``#python``
is for questions concerning development *with* Python.

.. _freenode: http://freenode.net/


Core Mentorship
---------------

If you are interested in improving Python and contributing to its development,
but don’t yet feel entirely comfortable with the public channels mentioned
above, `Python Mentors`_ are here to help you.  Python is fortunate to have a
community of volunteer core developers willing to mentor anyone wishing to
contribute code, work on bug fixes or improve documentation.  Everyone is
welcomed and encouraged to contribute.

.. _Python Mentors: https://www.python.org/dev/core-mentorship/


Mailing Lists
-------------

Further options for seeking assistance include the `python-ideas`_ and
`python-dev`_ mailing lists. Python-ideas contains discussion of speculative
Python language ideas for possible inclusion into the language. If an idea
gains traction it can then be discussed and honed to the point of becoming a
solid proposal and presented on python-dev.  Python-dev contains discussion
of current Python design issues, release mechanics, and maintenance of
existing releases.  As with ``#python-dev``, these mailing lists are for
questions involving the development *of* Python, **not** for development
*with* Python.

.. _python-ideas: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-ideas
.. _python-dev: https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-dev


File a Bug
----------

If you strongly suspect you have stumbled on a bug (be it in the build
process, in the test suite, or in other areas), then open an issue on the
`issue tracker`_.  As with every bug report it is strongly advised that
you detail which conditions triggered it (including the OS name and version,
and what you were trying to do), as well as the exact error message you
encountered.

.. _issue tracker: https://bugs.python.org
