pullrequest.rst, before:

.. This file is derived from a file of the same name in the CPython devguide
   and will receive updates from the CPython guide by merging.

.. _patch:

Lifecycle of a Pull Request
===========================

.. warning:: At present, this is not much modified from the CPython base.

Creating
--------

CPython uses a workflow based on pull requests. What this means is
that you create a branch in Git, make your changes, push those changes
to GitHub, and then create a pull request.
`GitHub's help pages <https://help.github.com/>`_ are good and there
are tons of pages out there for help with Git.  As such, this
document does not go into any great detail as the assumption is there
is a resource out there which will explain things in a way that makes
sense for you personally when it comes to general Git and GitHub
details.


Tool Setup
''''''''''

.. _workflow:

If you have not already done so, you will want to fork the
`CPython repository`_. You can read GitHub's documentation on how to
`fork a repository <https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/>`_
if you are not already familiar with how to do this. This will make
sure that you have a clone of your fork of CPython on your computer
and the appropriate remote repositories.

You will then want to create a branch to contain your work. GitHub has
instructions on how to
`create a branch <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository/>`_
within your fork through their website.


.. _CPython repository: https://github.com/python/cpython


Preparation
'''''''''''

When creating a pull request for submission, there are several things that you
should do to help ensure that your pull request is accepted.

First, make sure to follow Python's style guidelines. For Python code you
should follow :PEP:`8`, and for C code you should follow :PEP:`7`. If you have
one or two discrepancies those can be fixed by the core developer who merges
your pull request. But if you have systematic deviations from the style guides
your pull request will be put on hold until you fix the formatting issues.

Second, be aware of backwards-compatibility considerations. While the core
developer who eventually handles your pull request will make the final call on
whether something is acceptable, thinking about backwards-compatibility early
will help prevent having your pull request rejected on these grounds. Put
yourself in the shoes of someone whose code will be broken by the change(s)
introduced by the pull request. It is quite likely that any change made will
break someone's code, so you need to have a good reason to make a change as
you will be forcing someone to update their code. (This obviously does not
apply to new classes or functions; new arguments should be optional and have
default values which maintain the existing behavior.) If in doubt, have a look
at :PEP:`387` or :ref:`discuss <communication>` the issue with experienced
developers.

Third, make sure you have proper tests to verify your pull request works as
expected. Pull requests will not be accepted without the proper tests!

Fourth, make sure the entire test suite :ref:`runs <runtests>` **without
failure** because of your changes.  It is not sufficient to only run whichever
test seems impacted by your changes, because there might be interferences
unknown to you between your changes and some other part of the interpreter.

Fifth, proper :ref:`documentation <documenting>`
additions/changes should be included.


.. _patch-generation:

Generation
''''''''''

To perform a quick sanity check on your changes, you can run::

   make patchcheck

This will check and/or fix various common things people forget to do for
pull requests, such as adding any new files needed for the pull request to work
(note that not all checks apply to non-core developers).  On Windows, use this
command (after any successful build of Python)::

   python.bat Tools/scripts/patchcheck.py

.. _pullrequest-quickguide:

Quick Guide
'''''''''''

`Clear communication`_ is key to contributing to any project, especially an
`Open Source`_ project like CPython.

Here is a quick overview of how you can contribute to CPython on GitHub:

#. If an issue doesn't exist, `create an Issue`_ that describes your change.
   Trivial issues (e.g. typo fixes) do not require any issue to be created.

#. :ref:`Get started <setup>` and set up your system

#. :ref:`Fork CPython <fork-cpython>` (using the Fork button in the
   upper-right on GitHub)

#. :ref:`Clone your GitHub fork and add an "upstream" remote <clone-your-fork>`

#. :ref:`Build Python <compiling>` on your system

#. :ref:`Run tests <runtests>` after you have built Python

#. :ref:`Create a Branch in Git <pullrequest-steps>` where you can work on
   changes

#. :ref:`Run tests <runtests>` again

#. :ref:`Commit <commit-changes>` and :ref:`push <push-changes>`
   changes to your GitHub fork

#. `Create Pull Request`_ on GitHub to merge a branch from your fork

#. Review and address `comments on your Pull Request`_

#. When your changes are merged, you can :ref:`delete the PR branch <deleting_branches>`

#. Celebrate contributing to CPython! :)

.. _Clear communication: https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#how-to-submit-a-contribution
.. _Open Source: https://opensource.guide/
.. _create an Issue: https://bugs.python.org/
.. _CPython: https://github.com/python/cpython
.. _use HTTPS: https://help.github.com/articles/which-remote-url-should-i-use/
.. _Create Pull Request: https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/
.. _comments on your Pull Request: https://help.github.com/articles/commenting-on-a-pull-request/


.. _pullrequest-steps:

Quick Guide Step-by-step
''''''''''''''''''''''''

Set up your system (using SSH, or you can `use HTTPS`_)::

    git clone git@github.com:YOUR_GITHUB_ID/cpython.git

Replace ``YOUR_GITHUB_ID`` with your GitHub account name above, then add
main CPython repository as upstream::

    git remote add upstream git://github.com/python/cpython.git

Work on new features or fixes::

    git checkout -b MY_BRANCH_NAME upstream/master

As you work, commit changes::

    git commit

Then fetch upstream to see if anything conflicts with your changes::

    git fetch upstream

Then push your work to your clone on GitHub::

    git push origin MY_BRANCH_NAME

Make a pull request on GitHub from your changes in ``MY_BRANCH_NAME``.

After your PR has been accepted and merged, you can :ref:`delete the branch <deleting_branches>`::

   git branch -D MY_BRANCH_NAME  # delete local branch
   git push origin -d MY_BRANCH_NAME  # delete remote branch

.. note::
   You can still upload a patch to bugs.python.org_, but the GitHub pull request
   workflow is **strongly** preferred.


.. _cla:

Licensing
---------

To accept your change we must have your formal approval for distributing
your work under the `PSF license`_.  Therefore, you need to sign a
`contributor agreement`_ which allows the `Python Software Foundation`_ to
license your code for use with Python (you retain the copyright).

.. note::
   You only have to sign this document once, it will then apply to all
   your further contributions to Python.

Here are the steps needed in order to sign the CLA:

1. If you don't have an account on `bugs.python.org <https://bugs.python.org>`_
   (aka b.p.o), please `register <https://bugs.python.org/user?@template=register>`_
   to create one.

2. Make sure your GitHub username is listed in the
   `"Your Details" <https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/2680980/23276970/d14a380c-f9d1-11e6-883d-e13b6b211239.png>`_
   section at b.p.o.

3. Fill out and sign the PSF `contributor form`_. The "bugs.python.org username"
   requested by the form is the "Login name" field under "Your Details".

After signing the CLA, please **wait at least one US business day** and
then check "Your Details" on `b.p.o <https://bugs.python.org>`_ to see if your account has
been marked as having signed the CLA (the delay is due to a person having
to manually check your signed CLA). Once you have verified that your b.p.o
account reflects your signing of the CLA, you can either ask for the CLA check
to be run again or wait for it to be run automatically the next time you push
changes to your PR.


.. _PSF license: https://docs.python.org/dev/license.html#terms-and-conditions-for-accessing-or-otherwise-using-python
.. _contributor agreement: https://www.python.org/psf/contrib/
.. _contributor form: https://www.python.org/psf/contrib/contrib-form/
.. _Python Software Foundation: https://www.python.org/psf/


Submitting
----------

Once you are satisfied with your work you will want to commit your
changes to your branch. In general you can run ``git commit -a`` and
that will commit everything. You can always run ``git status`` to see
what changes are outstanding.

When all of your changes are committed (i.e. ``git status`` doesn't
list anything), you will want to push your branch to your fork::

  git push origin <branch name>

This will get your changes up to GitHub.

Now you want to
`create a pull request from your fork <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork/>`_.
If this is a pull request in response to a pre-existing issue on the
`issue tracker`_, please make sure to reference the issue number using bpo-NNNN in
the pull request title or message.

If this is a pull request for an unreported issue (assuming you already
performed a search on the issue tracker for a pre-existing issue), create a
new issue and reference it in the pull request. Please fill in as much
relevant detail as possible to prevent reviewers from having to delay
reviewing your pull request because of lack of information.

If this issue is so simple that there's no need for an issue to track
any discussion of what the pull request is trying to solve (e.g. fixing a
spelling mistake), then the pull request needs to have the "skip issue" label
added to it.

Your pull request may involve several commits as a result of addressing code
review comments.  Please keep the commit history in the pull request intact by
not squashing, amending, or anything that would require a force push to GitHub.
A detailed commit history allows reviewers to view the diff of one commit to
another so they can easily verify whether their comments have been addressed.
The commits will be squashed when the pull request is merged.


.. _issue tracker: https://bugs.python.org

Converting an Existing Patch from b.p.o to GitHub
-------------------------------------------------

When a patch exists in the `issue tracker`_ that should be converted into a
GitHub pull request, please first ask the original patch author to prepare
their own pull request. If the author does not respond after a week, it is
acceptable for another contributor to prepare the pull request based on the
existing patch. In this case, both parties should sign the :ref:`CLA <cla>`.
When creating a pull request based on another person's patch, provide
attribution to the original patch author by adding "Original patch by
<author name>." to the pull request description and commit message.

See also :ref:`Applying a Patch from Mercurial to Git <git_from_mercurial>`.

Reviewing
---------

To begin with, please be patient! There are many more people
submitting pull requests than there are people capable of reviewing
your pull request. Getting your pull request reviewed requires a
reviewer to have the spare time and motivation to look at your pull
request (we cannot force anyone to review pull requests and no one is
employed to look at pull requests). If your pull request has not
received any notice from reviewers (i.e., no comment made) after one
month, first "ping" the issue on the `issue tracker`_ to remind the
nosy list that the pull request needs a review.  If you don't get a response
within a week after pinging the issue, then you can try emailing
python-dev@python.org to ask for someone to review your pull request.

When someone does manage to find the time to look at your pull request
they will most likely make comments about how it can be improved
(don't worry, even core developers of Python have their pull requests sent
back to them for changes).  It is then expected that you update your
pull request to address these comments, and the review process will
thus iterate until a satisfactory solution has emerged.

How to Review a Pull Request
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

One of the bottlenecks in the Python development
process is the lack of code reviews.
If you browse the bug tracker, you will see that numerous issues
have a fix, but cannot be merged into the main source code repository,
because no one has reviewed the proposed solution.
Reviewing a pull request can be just as informative as providing a
pull request and it will allow you to give constructive comments on
another developer's work. This guide provides a checklist for
submitting a code review. It is a common misconception that in order
to be useful, a code review has to be perfect. This is not the case at
all! It is helpful to just test the pull request and/or play around with the
code and leave comments in the pull request or issue tracker.

1. If you have not already done so, get a copy of the CPython repository
   by following the :ref:`setup guide <setup>`, build it and run the tests.

2. Check the bug tracker to see what steps are necessary to reproduce
   the issue and confirm that you can reproduce the issue in your version
   of the Python REPL (the interactive shell prompt), which you can launch
   by executing ./python inside the repository.

3. Checkout and apply the pull request (Please refer to the instruction :ref:`git_pr`)

4. If the changes affect any C file, run the build again.

5. Launch the Python REPL (the interactive shell prompt) and check if
   you can reproduce the issue. Now that the pull request has been applied,
   the issue should be fixed (in theory, but mistakes do happen! A good review
   aims to catch these before the code is merged into the Python repository).
   You should also try to see if there are any corner cases in this or related
   issues that the author of the fix may have missed.

6. If you have time, run the entire test suite. If you are pressed for time,
   run the tests for the module(s) where changes were applied.
   However, please be aware that if you are recommending a pull request as
   'merge-ready', you should always make sure the entire test suite passes.


Dismissing Review from Another Core Developer
---------------------------------------------

A core developer can dismiss another core developer's review if they confirmed
that the requested changes have been made.  When a core developer has assigned
the PR to themselves, then it is a sign that they are actively looking after
the PR, and their review should not be dismissed.


Committing/Rejecting
--------------------

Once your pull request has reached an acceptable state (and thus considered
"accepted"), it will either be merged or rejected. If it is rejected, please
do not take it personally! Your work is still appreciated regardless of whether
your pull request is merged. Balancing what *does* and *does not* go into
Python is tricky and we simply cannot accept everyone's contributions.

But if your pull request is merged it will then go into Python's
:abbr:`VCS (version control system)` to be released
with the next major release of Python. It may also be backported to older
versions of Python as a bugfix if the core developer doing the merge believes
it is warranted.


Crediting
---------

Non-trivial contributions are credited in the ``Misc/ACKS`` file (and, most
often, in a contribution's news entry as well).  You may be
asked to make these edits on the behalf of the core developer who
accepts your pull request.

Commit message:

Ensure links are appropriate to Jython (:ref: and :doc:).
Check and fix hyperlinks (all the :ref: and :doc: formulae) so the
reader is not carried into material specific to CPython while
navigating.

pullrequest.rst, after:

.. This file is derived from a file of the same name in the CPython devguide
   and will receive updates from the CPython guide by merging.

.. _patch:

Lifecycle of a Pull Request
===========================

.. warning:: At present, this is not much modified from the CPython base.
   This describes the PR-based process used by CPython on GitHub, which works
   for Jython in a limited form. (You can asubmit a PR, but we export a patch.)
   The traditional Jython process is based on
   :doc:`patches submitted to the tracker <patch_hg_jy>`.

Creating
--------

CPython uses a workflow based on pull requests. What this means is
that you create a branch in Git, make your changes, push those changes
to GitHub, and then create a pull request.
`GitHub's help pages <https://help.github.com/>`_ are good and there
are tons of pages out there for help with Git.  As such, this
document does not go into any great detail as the assumption is there
is a resource out there which will explain things in a way that makes
sense for you personally when it comes to general Git and GitHub
details.


Tool Setup
''''''''''

.. _workflow:

If you have not already done so, you will want to fork the
`CPython repository`_. You can read GitHub's documentation on how to
`fork a repository <https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/>`_
if you are not already familiar with how to do this. This will make
sure that you have a clone of your fork of CPython on your computer
and the appropriate remote repositories.

You will then want to create a branch to contain your work. GitHub has
instructions on how to
`create a branch <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository/>`_
within your fork through their website.


.. _CPython repository: https://github.com/python/cpython


Preparation
'''''''''''

When creating a pull request for submission, there are several things that you
should do to help ensure that your pull request is accepted.

First, make sure to follow Python's style guidelines. For Python code you
should follow :PEP:`8`, and for C code you should follow :PEP:`7`. If you have
one or two discrepancies those can be fixed by the core developer who merges
your pull request. But if you have systematic deviations from the style guides
your pull request will be put on hold until you fix the formatting issues.

Second, be aware of backwards-compatibility considerations. While the core
developer who eventually handles your pull request will make the final call on
whether something is acceptable, thinking about backwards-compatibility early
will help prevent having your pull request rejected on these grounds. Put
yourself in the shoes of someone whose code will be broken by the change(s)
introduced by the pull request. It is quite likely that any change made will
break someone's code, so you need to have a good reason to make a change as
you will be forcing someone to update their code. (This obviously does not
apply to new classes or functions; new arguments should be optional and have
default values which maintain the existing behavior.) If in doubt, have a look
at :PEP:`387` or :ref:`discuss <communication>` the issue with experienced
developers.

Third, make sure you have proper tests to verify your pull request works as
expected. Pull requests will not be accepted without the proper tests!

Fourth, make sure the entire test suite :ref:`runs <runtests>` **without
failure** because of your changes.  It is not sufficient to only run whichever
test seems impacted by your changes, because there might be interferences
unknown to you between your changes and some other part of the interpreter.

Fifth, proper :ref:`documentation <documenting>`
additions/changes should be included.


.. _patch-generation:

Generation
''''''''''

To perform a quick sanity check on your changes, you can run::

   make patchcheck

This will check and/or fix various common things people forget to do for
pull requests, such as adding any new files needed for the pull request to work
(note that not all checks apply to non-core developers).  On Windows, use this
command (after any successful build of Python)::

   python.bat Tools/scripts/patchcheck.py

.. _pullrequest-quickguide:

Quick Guide
'''''''''''

`Clear communication`_ is key to contributing to any project, especially an
`Open Source`_ project like CPython.

Here is a quick overview of how you can contribute to CPython on GitHub:

#. If an issue doesn't exist, `create an Issue`_ that describes your change.
   Trivial issues (e.g. typo fixes) do not require any issue to be created.

#. :ref:`Get started <setup-jy>` and set up your system

#. :ref:`Fork Jython <fork-jython>` (using the Fork button in the
   upper-right on GitHub)

#. :ref:`Clone your GitHub fork and add an "upstream" remote <clone-your-fork>`

#. :ref:`Build Jython <compiling-jy>` on your system

#. :ref:`Run tests <runtests>` after you have built Python

#. :ref:`Create a Branch in Git <pullrequest-steps>` where you can work on
   changes

#. :ref:`Run tests <runtests>` again

#. :ref:`Commit <commit-changes>` and :ref:`push <push-changes>`
   changes to your GitHub fork

#. `Create Pull Request`_ on GitHub to merge a branch from your fork

#. Review and address `comments on your Pull Request`_

#. When your changes are merged, you can :ref:`delete the PR branch <deleting_branches>`

#. Celebrate contributing to CPython! :)

.. _Clear communication: https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#how-to-submit-a-contribution
.. _Open Source: https://opensource.guide/
.. _create an Issue: https://bugs.python.org/
.. _CPython: https://github.com/python/cpython
.. _use HTTPS: https://help.github.com/articles/which-remote-url-should-i-use/
.. _Create Pull Request: https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/
.. _comments on your Pull Request: https://help.github.com/articles/commenting-on-a-pull-request/


.. _pullrequest-steps:

Quick Guide Step-by-step
''''''''''''''''''''''''

Set up your system (using SSH, or you can `use HTTPS`_)::

    git clone git@github.com:YOUR_GITHUB_ID/cpython.git

Replace ``YOUR_GITHUB_ID`` with your GitHub account name above, then add
main CPython repository as upstream::

    git remote add upstream git://github.com/python/cpython.git

Work on new features or fixes::

    git checkout -b MY_BRANCH_NAME upstream/master

As you work, commit changes::

    git commit

Then fetch upstream to see if anything conflicts with your changes::

    git fetch upstream

Then push your work to your clone on GitHub::

    git push origin MY_BRANCH_NAME

Make a pull request on GitHub from your changes in ``MY_BRANCH_NAME``.

After your PR has been accepted and merged, you can :ref:`delete the branch <deleting_branches>`::

   git branch -D MY_BRANCH_NAME  # delete local branch
   git push origin -d MY_BRANCH_NAME  # delete remote branch

.. note::
   You can still upload a patch to bugs.python.org_, but the GitHub pull request
   workflow is **strongly** preferred.


.. _cla:

Licensing
---------

To accept your change we must have your formal approval for distributing
your work under the `PSF license`_.  Therefore, you need to sign a
`contributor agreement`_ which allows the `Python Software Foundation`_ to
license your code for use with Python (you retain the copyright).

.. note::
   You only have to sign this document once, it will then apply to all
   your further contributions to Python.

Here are the steps needed in order to sign the CLA:

1. If you don't have an account on `bugs.python.org <https://bugs.python.org>`_
   (aka b.p.o), please `register <https://bugs.python.org/user?@template=register>`_
   to create one.

2. Make sure your GitHub username is listed in the
   `"Your Details" <https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/2680980/23276970/d14a380c-f9d1-11e6-883d-e13b6b211239.png>`_
   section at b.p.o.

3. Fill out and sign the PSF `contributor form`_. The "bugs.python.org username"
   requested by the form is the "Login name" field under "Your Details".

After signing the CLA, please **wait at least one US business day** and
then check "Your Details" on `b.p.o <https://bugs.python.org>`_ to see if your account has
been marked as having signed the CLA (the delay is due to a person having
to manually check your signed CLA). Once you have verified that your b.p.o
account reflects your signing of the CLA, you can either ask for the CLA check
to be run again or wait for it to be run automatically the next time you push
changes to your PR.


.. _PSF license: https://docs.python.org/dev/license.html#terms-and-conditions-for-accessing-or-otherwise-using-python
.. _contributor agreement: https://www.python.org/psf/contrib/
.. _contributor form: https://www.python.org/psf/contrib/contrib-form/
.. _Python Software Foundation: https://www.python.org/psf/


Submitting
----------

Once you are satisfied with your work you will want to commit your
changes to your branch. In general you can run ``git commit -a`` and
that will commit everything. You can always run ``git status`` to see
what changes are outstanding.

When all of your changes are committed (i.e. ``git status`` doesn't
list anything), you will want to push your branch to your fork::

  git push origin <branch name>

This will get your changes up to GitHub.

Now you want to
`create a pull request from your fork <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork/>`_.
If this is a pull request in response to a pre-existing issue on the
`issue tracker`_, please make sure to reference the issue number using bpo-NNNN in
the pull request title or message.

If this is a pull request for an unreported issue (assuming you already
performed a search on the issue tracker for a pre-existing issue), create a
new issue and reference it in the pull request. Please fill in as much
relevant detail as possible to prevent reviewers from having to delay
reviewing your pull request because of lack of information.

If this issue is so simple that there's no need for an issue to track
any discussion of what the pull request is trying to solve (e.g. fixing a
spelling mistake), then the pull request needs to have the "skip issue" label
added to it.

Your pull request may involve several commits as a result of addressing code
review comments.  Please keep the commit history in the pull request intact by
not squashing, amending, or anything that would require a force push to GitHub.
A detailed commit history allows reviewers to view the diff of one commit to
another so they can easily verify whether their comments have been addressed.
The commits will be squashed when the pull request is merged.


.. _issue tracker: https://bugs.python.org

Converting an Existing Patch from b.p.o to GitHub
-------------------------------------------------

When a patch exists in the `issue tracker`_ that should be converted into a
GitHub pull request, please first ask the original patch author to prepare
their own pull request. If the author does not respond after a week, it is
acceptable for another contributor to prepare the pull request based on the
existing patch. In this case, both parties should sign the :ref:`CLA <cla>`.
When creating a pull request based on another person's patch, provide
attribution to the original patch author by adding "Original patch by
<author name>." to the pull request description and commit message.

See also :ref:`Applying a Patch from Mercurial to Git <git_from_mercurial>`.

Reviewing
---------

To begin with, please be patient! There are many more people
submitting pull requests than there are people capable of reviewing
your pull request. Getting your pull request reviewed requires a
reviewer to have the spare time and motivation to look at your pull
request (we cannot force anyone to review pull requests and no one is
employed to look at pull requests). If your pull request has not
received any notice from reviewers (i.e., no comment made) after one
month, first "ping" the issue on the `issue tracker`_ to remind the
nosy list that the pull request needs a review.  If you don't get a response
within a week after pinging the issue, then you can try emailing
python-dev@python.org to ask for someone to review your pull request.

When someone does manage to find the time to look at your pull request
they will most likely make comments about how it can be improved
(don't worry, even core developers of Python have their pull requests sent
back to them for changes).  It is then expected that you update your
pull request to address these comments, and the review process will
thus iterate until a satisfactory solution has emerged.

How to Review a Pull Request
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

One of the bottlenecks in the Python development
process is the lack of code reviews.
If you browse the bug tracker, you will see that numerous issues
have a fix, but cannot be merged into the main source code repository,
because no one has reviewed the proposed solution.
Reviewing a pull request can be just as informative as providing a
pull request and it will allow you to give constructive comments on
another developer's work. This guide provides a checklist for
submitting a code review. It is a common misconception that in order
to be useful, a code review has to be perfect. This is not the case at
all! It is helpful to just test the pull request and/or play around with the
code and leave comments in the pull request or issue tracker.

1. If you have not already done so, get a copy of the CPython repository
   by following the :ref:`setup guide <setup>`, build it and run the tests.

2. Check the bug tracker to see what steps are necessary to reproduce
   the issue and confirm that you can reproduce the issue in your version
   of the Python REPL (the interactive shell prompt), which you can launch
   by executing ./python inside the repository.

3. Checkout and apply the pull request (Please refer to the instruction :ref:`git_pr`)

4. If the changes affect any C file, run the build again.

5. Launch the Python REPL (the interactive shell prompt) and check if
   you can reproduce the issue. Now that the pull request has been applied,
   the issue should be fixed (in theory, but mistakes do happen! A good review
   aims to catch these before the code is merged into the Python repository).
   You should also try to see if there are any corner cases in this or related
   issues that the author of the fix may have missed.

6. If you have time, run the entire test suite. If you are pressed for time,
   run the tests for the module(s) where changes were applied.
   However, please be aware that if you are recommending a pull request as
   'merge-ready', you should always make sure the entire test suite passes.


Dismissing Review from Another Core Developer
---------------------------------------------

A core developer can dismiss another core developer's review if they confirmed
that the requested changes have been made.  When a core developer has assigned
the PR to themselves, then it is a sign that they are actively looking after
the PR, and their review should not be dismissed.


Committing/Rejecting
--------------------

Once your pull request has reached an acceptable state (and thus considered
"accepted"), it will either be merged or rejected. If it is rejected, please
do not take it personally! Your work is still appreciated regardless of whether
your pull request is merged. Balancing what *does* and *does not* go into
Python is tricky and we simply cannot accept everyone's contributions.

But if your pull request is merged it will then go into Python's
:abbr:`VCS (version control system)` to be released
with the next major release of Python. It may also be backported to older
versions of Python as a bugfix if the core developer doing the merge believes
it is warranted.


Crediting
---------

Non-trivial contributions are credited in the ``Misc/ACKS`` file (and, most
often, in a contribution's news entry as well).  You may be
asked to make these edits on the behalf of the core developer who
accepts your pull request.
